When I first read the spec of the project, I was pretty excited to see the problem, it seemed creative to implement and not boring. When I noticed that this was an exercise to practice functional programming, I knew this would be a challenge, especially in Scala still is a new language to me. 

When I first started coding, I broke it down into parts because the algorithm wasn't all that too difficult but putting it in terms of a functional programming challenge. Initially, I had trouble parsing it without a for loop but now I find myself using foreach very comfortably. Another challenge I came across was using variables and functions in immutable states. I stopped in the middle of coding a lot and wrote down the steps of the algorithm because I was having difficulty adhering to the style of functional programming. However, as a couple of hours passed by, I realized that functional programming isn't as bad as it seemed in this case. I started to look more into functional programming and how it's used in the real world. On StackOverflow 2019 Developer Survey Results — the world’s largest survey for programmers around the world, 4 out of the top 5 programming languages associated with the highest salaries are purely functional ones! This method of programming is powerful and very relevant to us today. Also, LinkedIn, Twitter, Netflix, Foursquare, Tumblr, Sony, Airbnb, The Guardian, Apple are some companies that use scala. Some other companies which use functional programming in a unique way include Pinterest, Google, and Intel. Pinterest's notification system made in Elixir reduced the codebase size from 10,000 to 1,000 lines while also cutting server requirements by half while Intel’s Programming Systems Lab (PSL) has been collaborating with an external partner for years on a new functional programming language designed for productivity on many-core processors. 

I think functional programming is a paradigm for processing data, especially big data. Complexity is a major concern when writing code: the more complex a program is, the harder it is to work with and ponder about it. Functional programming is a declarative programming paradigm that takes the Object-oriented approach to managing state even further avoiding side effects as much as possible. Having immutable data types and functions that pass values or even functions to one another being that whenever it receives a certain input, it will always return the same output. Additionally, when it comes to functional programming very often, you can do more with less code. It’s much more concise. Overall, I had a good challenge learning this type of programming, I learned a lot and another language simultaneously. In the future, I would definitely do more research on functional programming and learn how to become better at it. 


Thanks for taking the time to read this! If you would like to see my project, don't hesitate to contact me. My repos are private for school purposes but my email is lavanya@vt.edu
